+++
title = "Toward a Taylor rule for fiscal policy"
date = "2014-06-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = [ "Martin, Kliem", "Alexander Kriwoluzky"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "**Review of Economic Dynamics**, 17(2), 294-302"
#publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In DSGE models, fiscal policy is typically described by simple rules in which tax rates respond to the level of output. We show that there is only weak empirical evidence in favor of such specifications in US data. Instead, the cyclical movements of labor and capital income tax rates are better described by a contemporaneous response to hours worked and investment, respectively. We show that conditioning on these variables is also desirable from a normative perspective as it significantly improves welfare relative to output-based rules."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
[[url_custom]]
    name = "Published Version"
    url = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1094202513000458/"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = ""
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
