+++
title = "Same, but different? Testing monetary policy shock measures"
date = "2019-08-23"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = [ "Stephanie Ettmeier", "Alexander Kriwoluzky"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "**Economics Letters**, 184"
#publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In this study, we determine the reliability and exogeneity of four popular monetary policy shock measures, namely the narrative series of Romer and Romer (2004), the high-frequency series of Barakchian and Crowe (2013), the high-frequency series of Gertler and Karadi (2015), and the hybrid series of Miranda-Agrippino and Ricco (2018b). To this end, we employ the Proxy-SVAR model and different empirical diagnostic tools to determine the shock measures’ information content. We find that the measure of Miranda-Agrippino and Ricco (2018b), combining the insights from the narrative approach and high-frequency identification, outperforms the other three series."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
[[url_custom]]
    name = "Published Version"
    url = "https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0165176519303155"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = ""
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
