 +++
title = "Nested models and model uncertainty"
date = "2016-06-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.

authors = [ "Alexander Kriwoluzky" , "Christian Stoltenberg"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "**Scandinavian Journal of Economics**, 118(2), 324-352"
#publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Uncertainty about the appropriate choice among nested models is a concern for optimal policy when policy prescriptions from those models differ. The standard procedure is to specify a prior over the parameter space, ignoring the special status of submodels (e.g., those resulting from zero restrictions). Following Sims (2008, *Journal of Economic Dynamics and Control* 32, 2460–2475), we treat nested submodels as probability models, and we formalize a procedure that ensures that submodels are not discarded too easily and do matter for optimal policy. For the United States, we find that optimal policy based on our procedure leads to substantial welfare gains compared to the standard procedure."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
[[url_custom]]
    name = "Published Version"
    url = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/sjoe.12134/"

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true
  
# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
#image = ""
#caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++
